This file will act as your primer on how to setup, compile, run, and use this program.

Setup:
First, you will need to update the GenderOptions.txt file to be your desired file and update the relative classpath on DisasterVictim.java following the instructions in the comment above the FILE_PATH variable. Second, you have to initialize the PROVIDED SQL FILE. This is different from the original file and thus must be run to have access to the properly formatted database. The data inside does not matter and can be edited within the constraints of the format of the tables which cannot be changed. To execute this file run the command "psql -U admin-username -f "...\data\project.sql" in a terminal. The file path should be the complete file path to the SQL file, and after -U, this should be the username of your admin profile for Postgres. This file should drop and create the ensf380project database, fill it with new info and create a user oop with the password ucalgary that has all the necessary permissions for using the database as intended. This username and password are hardcoded into the database querying class. Third, place the three jar files, Junit, hamcrest and Postgresql, into the lib folder inside the assignment, the commands for compilation and running assume this is where the jar files exist. If you wish to have these in a different directory the commands will have to have the path to them adjusted. Lastly, change your working directory to be inside of the src folder within the assignment, this is just outside of edu/ucalgary/oop and all commands coming up require you to remain in this directory.

Compilation: 
To compile all the files run the command "javac -cp ".;../lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar;../lib/junit-4.13.2.jar;../lib/postgresql-42.7.3.jar" edu/ucalgary/oop/*.java" on windows or "javac -cp ".:../lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:../lib/junit-4.13.2.jar:../lib/postgresql-42.7.3.jar" edu/ucalgary/oop/*.java" on Unix. This should compile all files, including the GUI and testing. 

Running:
To run the tests the command "java -cp ".;../lib/*;edu/ucalgary/oop/tests" org.junit.runner.JUnitCore edu.ucalgary.oop.tests.*" on Windows or "java -cp ":../lib/*;edu/ucalgary/oop/tests" org.junit.runner.JUnitCore edu.ucalgary.oop.tests.*" on unix based systems. This should run all of the testing files. These files do not have much code in them. I spent a lot of time working on input validation and the rest of the code is very thorough but I did not have time to properly implement testing. There is validation for things like leap years, REGEX for names, dates and phone numbers, checks for dates in the future and much much more. I tried to be extremely careful to include as many possible inputs into my validation but this meant the extent to which I would have had to write tests became too much with the time limit I was under. A few classes have tests implemented which demonstrate the level of detail I put into my work for the tests but classes like Disaster Victim would have had over 60 different tests to test all possible input varieties, which didn't leave me enough time to finish it among others. To run the start program main script uses the command "java -cp ".;../lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar;../lib/junit-4.13.2.jar;../lib/postgresql-42.7.3.jar" edu.ucalgary.oop.ProgramStart" or "java -cp ".:../lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:../lib/junit-4.13.2.jar:../lib/postgresql-42.7.3.jar" edu.ucalgary.oop.ProgramStart" on Unix based machines. This will prompt you with a choice of 1 or 2 for the 2 different GUIs, only the inquirer interface is implemented so this can be run with 1 and hitting enter. 

Operation:
Operating this code is easy through the use of the GUI. Follow the prompts of the various buttons that will appear on your screen to navigate your way through the menus. These menus will guide you through various menus for searching inquirers and their inquiries, adding new inquirers and inquiries for them, or adding new inquiries to existing inquirers. If there are any errors in the inputs, a message will flash on your screen indicating that you made an error and where you made it, and then it will give you a chance to correct it. This GUI directly interfaces with the SQL database so any changes made will be visible there too. 
As for the operation of the rest of the code, three main classes are used more than any other, this being ReliefService, Location and DisasterVictim. Location and ReliefService are essentially miniature databases for information. Relief Service holds info about a missing person and all inquirers and their inquiries about them. Each inquirer and inquiry has its class that matches the database so values from the database can be directly translated into these classes. The relief service class provides the ability to have a single log of inquiries about a missing person that is made up of a collection of inquiry logs from inquirers. The complete log can be retrieved as well through the use of a method. When interfacing with the database, the InquirerDatabaseInterfacer class can be used with its preloaded methods for selection and insertion. Creating an instance of this class will automatically create a new connection to the database that can be used from anywhere. Moving on to location, this class acts as a miniature database for an individual location that is being used to house or support disaster victims. It holds the information about its address, the supplies they have on hand and the disaster victims that are present currently. It also allows for the assignment of supplies from reserves to disaster victims which will update the personal belongings of a disaster victim and the supplies at the location using the appropriate increment or decrement functions. Lastly, DisasterVictim is the class that holds all pertinent information about a given disaster victim. Things such as dietary restrictions, gender (which uses a text file for input validation) name, family relations and more. Each dietary restriction is an enumerated value and can make use of an abstract getter to retrieve the full name of the abbreviated restriction. Alongside this, the family relation array list present on a disaster victim employs methods to check a variety of types of validity. Things such as duplicate relationships, detecting family trees and enforcing two-sided relationships.
